title: CS&S Services: Collaborative Communities
----
view: default
----
text:

Projects are slowed or made complex, despite the best efforts of team leaders, by communication issues and mismatched expectations. Team members find themselves bogged down, as more channels for communication make it harder to find information and get work done. Groups often reach for new software tools — like GitHub, Trello, and Slack — to improve workflows. But these are only tools. Without first creating alignment on goals and collaboration standards, collaboration tools are an additional burden. Effective communication and management processes are needed to take advantage of these tools in collaborative work. However, as each leader and team have unique needs and goals, there’s no single best practice that will work for all. 

We facilitate communities to launch and sustain projects successfully. Code for Science & Society Executive Directors, Danielle and Joe, have introduced researchers around the world to open source approaches to running projects, managed development of a data collection platform used in over 30 countries, and coordinated global open source projects with hundreds of collaborators. By drawing on our experience and industry best practices, we empower groups to reach consensus on goals, standards, and processes to accelerate complex collaborative projects. 

Here’s what participants are saying about our recent in-person workshop with Chan Zuckerberg Science Human Cell Atlas group:

“Danielle Robinson + Joe Hand were amazing! I wished that everyone could go to this session to just talk about within-lab communication and project management.” 

“[Thanks] to inspiration from @joeahand and @daniellecrobins (+ other attendees) at the … GitHub session @cziscience Collaborative Computational Tools meeting .. I finally up'd my GitHub game .. guidelines, branches, PRs, squash-and-merges for a course we are teaching ..” - Mark Robinson via Twitter

Read more about the CZI event [on our blog](https://blog.datproject.org/2018/05/22/collaboration-czi/) and reach out to Joe and Danielle at hi@codeforscience.org to learn more.


