title: Code for Science & Society
----
view: home
----
subtitle: We empower communities to work together and build innovative technology for the public good.
----
tagline: Public Infrastructure for Emergent Communities
----
description: We envision a future of technology where value-driven communities have tools that reflect those values. With a focus on connecting people across boundaries and building shared infrastructure, we are working towards that future.
----
background: /assets/background.jpg
----
about:

Code for Science & Society (CS&S) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. We are building a global network of communities collaborating across industries to develop shared resources and solve common problems. We believe in the power of people working together to eliminate information silos and advance knowledge.

Centralized, private services limit information access, creativity, and free expression. We support communities creating innovative, open, and decentralized applications. We work with these groups to push existing boundaries while supporting inclusive models of community. We build foundational technology that allows data to flow across silos and institutions.


----

programs-text:
  we do things

----

programs:
  technology:
    title: Foundational Technology
    description: We build open technology and shared resources to encourage the flow of ideas across domains
  communities:
    title: Collaborative Communities
    description: We develop open learning resources and facilitate collaborations and community-driven projects.


----
projects:
  dat:
    link: http://datproject.org
    image: /assets/dat.png
    title: Dat Project
    description: Dat is a data sharing protocol for applications of the future
  sciencefair:
    link: http://sciencefair-app.com/
    image: /assets/sciencefair.png
    title: ScienceFair
    description: Search, collect, read and reuse the scientific literature.
  stencila:
    link: https://stenci.la/
    image: /assets/stencila.png
    title: Stencila
    description: The office suite for reproducible research.
----

domains:
  science:
    image: /assets/Science.png
    title: Research & Scholarship
    description: We improve reproducibility by creating tools for data sharing and preservation.
  government:
    image: /assets/Government.png
    title: Government & Society
    description: We facilitating civic engagement by improving access to public information.
  journalism:
    image: /assets/Journalism.png
    title: Journalism & New Media
    description: We empower creative communities by building decentralized technology.

----

sponsors:
  moore:
    link: https://www.moore.org/
    image: /assets/moore-logo-color.jpg
  sloan:
    link: https://sloan.org/
    image: /assets/sloan.png
  knight:
    link: https://knightfoundation.org/
    image: /assets/knight.png

----

team:
  danielle:
    name: Danielle Robinson, PhD
    title: President & Co-Executive Director
    description: Open science advocate and data enthusiast who believes in the power of open communities, former neuroscience researcher.
  joe:
    name: Joe Hand
    title: Co-Executive Director
    description: Developer, product manager, researcher, and open data enthusiast. Previously managed an effort at the Santa Fe Institute to transform data collection in informal settlements worldwide.
  mathias:
    name: Mathias Buus
    title: Technical Advisor
    description: Mathias Buus is a self taught JavaScript hacker from Copenhagen that has been working with Node.js since the 0.2 days. Mathias likes to work with P2P and distributed systems and is the author of more than 650 modules on npm. He is also the Chief of Research at Beaker Browser, leading the technical work on the Dat protocol.
  keith:
    name: Keith Chreston
    title: Secretary-Treasurer
    description: Over 30 years experience as a senior financial executive and consultant with several businesses and non-profit organizations. He is a CPA (inactive) and former auditor with Ernst & Young.
  max:
    name: Max Ogden
    title: Software Engineer
    description: Programmer based in Los Angeles. Founder of the Dat Project and co-founder of Code for Science and Society.

----

board:
  kaitlin:
    name: Kaitlin Thaney
    title: Board Chair
    description: Endowment Director at Wikimedia Foundation and an experienced advocate for open access to content, data, research.
  kristen:
    name: Kristen Ratan
    title: Board Member
    description: Co-Founder of the Collaborative Knowledge Foundation, on a mission to evolve how knowledge is created, produced, and shared.
  waldo:
    name: Waldo Jaquith
    title: Board Member
    description: Technical lead in 18F Acquisitions' state and local practice, previously Director of U.S. Open Data, Shuttleworth Foundation Fellow, and member of Project Open Data advisory team.
  karissa:
    name: Karissa McKelvey
    title: Board Member
    description: Software engineer for Digital Democracy, Dat Project team alumni, open source software developer, writer, project manager, and activist supporting an equitable web.
  josh:
    name: Josh Greenberg, PhD
    title: Board Advisor
    description: Director of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation's Digital Information Technology program.
